
# How to use USB Armory MkII
Since I didn't find very useful and strightforward tutorial on USB Armory MK2, I deceided to write my own.

## How to start?
In order to use the USB armory it is possible to either load a Debian linux disk image, or load a program uses Tamago framework on bare metal ARM System-on-Chip (SoC). the latter option allows you to run your program without the support of OS. The eaisest way one should start with is a pre-compiled Debian linux. [Debian for usbarmory ](https://github.com/usbarmory/usbarmory-debian-base_image/releases). You can of course build your the Debian image from  the scratch, but I havent done that yet [build from scratch](https://github.com/usbarmory/usbarmory-debian-base_image).

## Flash the OS to micro-sd card
[usbarmory-mark-two-usd-debian_bookworm-base_image-20240702.raw.xz](https://github.com/usbarmory/usbarmory-debian-base_image/releases/download/20240702/usbarmory-mark-two-usd-debian_bookworm-base_image-20240702.raw.xz) Once you finish download, unzip it and use _Etcher_ to load the image on a micro-sd card. it is an open-source and free app on Windows OS used for writing image files onto storage media. Loading image under Linux takes a few more steps. 

**IMPORTANT**:  `<path to raw file>`  must be replaced with the  _uncompressed_  raw file (e.g. not the .xz file) matching your USB armory model and boot media.
**IMPORTANT**:  `/dev/sdX`,  `/dev/diskN`  must be replaced with your microSD device (not eventual microSD partitions), ensure that you are specifying the correct one. Errors in target specification will result in disk corruption.
**NOTE**: Remember to uncompress the downloaded image file before imaging.
Linux (verify target from terminal using  `dmesg`):

```
sudo dd if=<path to raw file> of=/dev/sdX bs=1M conv=fsync
```
after loading the OS, plug in the sd card to usbarmory.

## Plug in
Now we have an image of Debian linux in the sd card. Before connect usb armory to PC, lets set up debug accessory that comes with the usb armory package. _NOTE_: the connection between the debug accessory and the target is supported only with the same orientation for both top layers (side with components(uart header) for the accessory, side with LEDs for the USB armory). Also, remember to cap the jumper header at the location of uart on the debug accessory PCB. Open up the terminal, use either _screen_ or _picocom_ to monitor the stdout from the usb armory 
```bash
sudo screen /dev/ttyUSB0 115200
sudo picocom -b 115200 -eb /dev/ttyUSB2 --imap lfcrlf
```
now connect debug accessory to the mk2 and connect both of them to your pc. you should be able to see the output about booting process, and in the end, login prompt asking for the id and password. the default id and password is usbarmory
The PC recognize usbarmory as an ethernet interface.
```bash
$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 045: ID 0525:a4a2 Netchip Technology, Inc. Linux-USB Ethernet/RNDIS Gadget
```




## Load single program to usbarmory
without the sd card, here is how to host identify the usbarmory
```bash
$ lsusb
Bus 001 Device 020: ID 0403:6011 Future Technology Devices International, Ltd FT4232H Quad HS USB-UART/FIFO IC
Bus 001 Device 044: ID 15a2:0080 Freescale Semiconductor, Inc. SE Blank 6ULL
```
This message indicate that the mk2 is in serial download protocol(sdp) mode. Lets try to flash the usbarmory with[armory-ums](https://github.com/usbarmory/armory-ums/tree/master). This TamaGo based unikernel allows USB Mass Storage interfacing for the USB armory Mk II internal eMMC card as well as any inserted external microSD card.
