---
title: 'Root Amazon Fire HD10 7th generation'
date: 2025-02-02
permalink: /posts/2025/02/root-fire/
tags:
  - USB Armory MkII
  - Articles
---

Articles and instructions on rooting Amazon Fire HD10 7th generation with Fire OS 5.7.1.

## Instructions on rooting and installing TWRP


I used the following articles and instructions to root my Fire HD10 7th generation.

[[UNLOCK][ROOT][TWRP][UNBRICK] Fire HD 10 2017 (suez)](https://xdaforums.com/t/unlock-root-twrp-unbrick-fire-hd-10-2017-suez.3913639/)

[亚马逊Fire HD10 2017 平板root/解bl锁/刷LineageOs](https://www.bilibili.com/opus/861275229318545426?jump_opus=1)

Install the following packages on a Linuxmachine.
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo add-apt-repository universe
sudo apt install python3 python3-serial adb fastboot dos2unix
```
If your Fire OS version is later than 5.6.9, you need to perform the root process using this link [Root the tablet](https://github.com/3ch01c/3ch01c.github.io/blob/master/docs/how-to-setup-amazon-fire-hd10.md#install-xposed:~:text=about%20Amazon%20apps.-,Root%20the%20tablet,-Adapted%20from%20retyre%27s).
Otherwise you can follow the instrction from [[UNLOCK][ROOT][TWRP][UNBRICK] Fire HD 10 2017 (suez)](https://xdaforums.com/t/unlock-root-twrp-unbrick-fire-hd-10-2017-suez.3913639/)

Download the amonet-suez-v1.1.2.zip and open a terminal in that directory. Execute the step 1 command
```bash
amonet-suez-v1.1.2/amonet$ sudo ./step-1.sh
```

NOTE: If you are on firmware 5.6.4.0 or newer, a downgrade is necessary, this requires bricking the device temporarily. (The screen won't come on at all)
If you chose the brick option, you don't need to run step-2.sh
Make sure ModemManager is disabled or uninstalled:
```bash
sudo systemctl stop ModemManager
sudo systemctl disable ModemManager
```
Then download brick-suze.zip
```bash
brick-suez/amonet$ sudo ./brick.sh
```
At this point, the system will automatically restart and enter a black screen state. First, unplug the data cable, return to the folder where version amonet-suez-v1.1.2/amonet is located, and continue executing. The official instructions state that you should run `sudo ./bootrom-step-minimal.sh`, but in practice, this causes the tablet to enter an infinite bootloader loop.
```bash
sudo ./bootrom-step.sh
```
Then plug the device back in.

It will then boot into "hacked fastboot" mode.
Then run
```bash
sudo ./fastboot-step.sh
```
You will get into TWRP(Team Win Recovery Project).



## Instructions on installing LineageOS
Since you are in TWRP, you can now remove the original Fire OS and install LineageOS.
#### Step 1: Wipe Fire OS Completely
1. Boot into TWRP:
If you're not already in TWRP, boot into recovery:
Power off the tablet.
Hold Power + Volume Up until the TWRP logo appears.
2. Wipe the Fire OS partitions:
In TWRP, go to Wipe > Advanced Wipe.
Select:
- Dalvik / ART Cache
- System
- Data
- Cache
DO NOT select "Internal Storage" (unless you want to completely erase all files).
Swipe to wipe.

#### Step 2: Download and Transfer LineageOS
1. Download unoffical LineageOS 14.1 from the following link:
https://androidfilehost.com/?w=files&flid=297398
https://xdaforums.com/t/discontinued-rom-unlocked-suez-lineage-14-1-26-sep-2019.3973703/

__Notes!!!__: 
Find the Correct LineageOS ROM if your device codename is suze. Find device code name by running:
```bash
adb shell getprop ro.product.device
```
If the output confirms it's "suez," you can use the downlink I provded. Otherwise, look for a LineageOS build specifically for this device:
---

2. Transfer the ROM & GApps to the tablet:
```bash
adb push lineage-14.1-20190926-UNOFFICIAL-suez.zip /sdcard/
```
#### Step 3: Install LineageOS
1. Go to "Install" in TWRP.
2. Select the LineageOS ZIP file.
3. Swipe to confirm flash.
4. Wait for the installation to complete.
5. Reboot your device.


#### Step 4: Factory Reset & Reboot
1. Go back to Wipe > Format Data.
2. Type yes and confirm.
3. Reboot > System.

Now you should be able to see the LineageOS boot screen.

To re-enter the TWRP, you press the power button and volumn down button at the same time.

In the future, I will dig into the how root and bootloader unlocking works and write a post about it.




